It is really important
that
you understand how navigation works behind the scenes. In an Angular Ionic app,
we use the Angular router for navigation and that is what you also already saw in the previous modules.
We set up our routes in our Angular router configuration just as we do it in a normal Angular app
and as I emphasized multiple times, this is just a normal Angular app but we use that router for setting
up the routes and then we can use the router link or the navigate method when we inject the router to
switch between the different paths and therefore the different pages.
Now here comes the interesting part when using the Angular router in an Ionic app because this Ionic
app with the @angular/ionic package actually kind of wraps that Angular routing functionality and
you can tell that it does by the fact that we use this ion router outlet
if you remember. It does so to basically add all these nice transitions,
that's the main purpose and for that, Ionic thinks of navigation or the different pages as a stack of
pages.
Because if you think about a mobile app, you typically see one page at a time right
and you can go to a new page or press the back button and go back. Well you can essentially do the same
in the browser of course, there you also have a back button. So you can think of navigation as a stack
of pages and you always view the page which is on top of this stack, so the topmost page, that is the
page you see but the other pages are still there, just hidden so to say
and when you go back, you basically pop that top page and you see the other pages. Ionic controls these
stack of pages with a stack controller.
Now that's a class you don't work with directly in your Angular app, Ionic does that for you,
so it's internal to Ionic and as I mentioned, when you use the Angular router for navigating, Ionic basically
watches the Angular router, it has a listener to your routing actions.
When you go forward, it basically pushes a new page onto that stack and when you go back or use that
ion back button, it pops that topmost page off. Now in case you're wondering how it knows whether a navigate
call is meant to go forward or backward,
it basically has a look at the internal ID of your navigation action and it turns out that by that
ID you can determine whether the new route is basically one step ahead of the old route or behind
it
so to say. So you don't have to worry about that, Ionic is really smart about finding out if you're going
forward or backward and that in turn is important for playing the right animation for transitioning
from pages.
Now these stack of pages and that's also something special Ionic does is then also cached for you and
that is now a difference to your normal Angular for web in browser experience. There what happens is if
you go to a new page and you go back, all these pages which in the end are just components are essentially
destroyed when you leave them, no matter if you're going forward or backward.
Now with Ionic, that's actually not the case. When you are going forward to a new page,
that old page which is still in that stack of pages so to say is kept in a cache in memory.
So this whole stack of pages is actually cached you could say and when you pop a page off,
well then this is removed from the cache because it's removed from the stack.
This will become important and it will also explain that little bug we had in our last modules which
I'll fix now or which I'll now explain you why it happens.
Now besides the Angular router for navigating around which we'll primarily use and which is the main
recommended tool for going around in your Ionic Angular app,
besides that, we also got the Ionic nav controller. That is an injectable service which you can inject
into any component or a service you might have and that essentially gives you some utility methods that
will also interact with that start controller,
for example it will give you a pop method which allows you to manually pop off the latest page on the
stack of pages and which will therefore trigger a back navigation. We'll not use the nav controller too
much,
still I will show it to you,
it's good to know it's there, can help you with going back
as I mentioned but primarily, we'll use the Angular router.